ggsa-pipeline/setup-pipeline/setup-pipeline.md, before:

# Setup a Stream Analytics Pipeline

## Introduction

Estimated Time: 20 minutes

This lab focuses on creating a pipeline and establishing stages, filters, and visualizations.

### Objectives
* Learn how to create pipelines
* Understand different stage types such as stream, query, pattern, target
* Configure complex stage type
* Publish a pipeline

### Prerequisites
* Completion of Lab 2: Prepare a Stream Analytics Pipeline

## Task 1: Create a pipeline

Now that we have created deployment and connections, we can open the Stream Analytics console and start building a pipeline.

1. Open the GGSA console on the Catalog page. If you don't have it open, please repeat lab 1, task 1, steps 1-4.

2. In the catalog page, click on **Create New Item** and select **Pipeline**.

   ![Create Pipeline](./images/create_pipeline.png "")

3. On the Create Pipeline dialog, for Name, enter **MoviePromotion**.

4. For Stream, select **ActivityStream**

5. Press **Save**.

   ![Create Pipeline page 1](./images/pipeline_dlg.png "")

6. The pipeline editor opens. At this point the pipeline is being deployed in draft mode, which will take 1-2 min. Please wait until "Starting Pipeline..." at the bottom disappears and events are started to be listed. You can press the **Got it** button on the help text appearing next to the ActivityStream stage.

   ![View Pipeline](./images/initial_pipeline.png "")

## Task 2: Enrich Events with Database References and Select Columns

In this task we will add a Query Stage, which, much like a SQL Select statement, can join, filter, and aggregate events and select and tranform columns.

1. Right-click the ActivityStream stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Query**.
   ![Create Query](./images/create_query1.png "")

2. In the Create Query Stage dialog, for Name enter **EnrichActivity**.

3. Press **Save**.
  ![Name Query](./images/name_query1.png "")

4. Press the **Add Source** button on the right side of the screen.

5. In the menu select **Customer**.

   ![Query add source](./images/query1_add_source.png "")

6. Ignore errors appearing on the screen, they warn that the current join is incomplete. Press again the **Add Source** button on the right side of the screen.

7. In the menu select **Movie**.

   ![Query add movie source](./images/query1_add_movie.png "")

8. Press **Add Condition**

   ![Query add condition](./images/query1_add_condition.png "")

9. In the three condition fields select **Movie > MOVIE\_ID**, **equals**, and **after\_MOVIE\_ID**

  ![Query add condition for movie](./images/query1_movie_condition.png "")

10. Press **Add Condition** again

9. In the three condition fields select **Customer > CUST\_ID**, **equals**, and **after\_CUST\_ID**

  ![Query add condition for custid](./images/query1_customer_condition.png "")

12. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the condition.

   ![Finished query](./images/query1_click.png "")

13. Click on **Columns** above the Live Event Output. 
   ![Map columns](./images/column_button.png "")

14. On the Columns dialog, first press the **<<** button to unselect all columns. They are moved to the left side. 

15. Select the following columns and press **>** to move them to the right side. You can do multi-select with Ctrl button or move one-by-one. 
   after\_GENRE\_ID, CUST\_ID, LAST\_NAME, FIRST\_NAME, CITY, LOC\_LAT, LOC\_LONG, AGE, INCOME, INSUFF\_FUNDS\_INCIDENTS, NUM\_CARS, TITLE
   ![Select columns](./images/column_dlg.png "")

16. Press Save to close the dialog.

17. We need to rename the column **after\_GENRE\_ID** to **GENRE\_ID**. Double-click on the **after\_GENRE\_ID** column header. An edit field will appear, change the name to **GENRE\_ID**. Press Enter after renaming.
   ![rename genre id](./images/rename_genre_id.png "")

## Task 3: Filter Customers with Geo Fence
In this task we will add a Query Stage, which, much like a SQL Select statement, can join, filter, and aggregate events and select and tranform columns.

1. Right-click the EnrichActivity stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Pattern**.
   ![Add Geo Fence pattern](./images/add_geofence.png "")

2. In the Select Pattern dialog, choose the category **Spatial** and then the Pattern **Geo Fence**.
   ![Pick Geofence](./images/pattern_geofence.png "")

3. In the Create Pattern Stage dialog, for Name, enter **FilterRegion** and press **Save**.
   ![Setup Geo Fence](./images/geofence_dlg.png "")

4. In the field **Geo Fence** select **Regions**
5. In the field **Latitude** select **LOC\_LAT**
6. In the field **Longitude** select **LOC\_LONG**
7. In the field **Object Key** select **CUST\_ID**
8. In **Tracking Events** deselect **Near**, **Exit**, and **Stay**, so that only **Enter** remains checked.
9. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the changes.

  ![Geo Fence finished](./images/config_geofence.png "")

10. Wait for changes to apply and events to appear in the Live Event Output. Then press the Visualizations tab and see customer locations within the West Coast and East Coast regions.

  ![Geo Fence map](./images/geofence_map.png "")

## Task 4: Add OML Machine Learning Scoring

We can now score customer events based on the likelihood to respond to a promotion. We have a pre-trained OML model in the autonomous data warehouse that we can use.

1. Right-click the FilterRegion stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Pattern**.
   ![Create OML](./images/add_oml.png "")

2. In the Select Pattern dialog, choose the category **Machine Learning** and then the Pattern **Oracle Machine Learning Services**.
   ![Pick Pattern](./images/pattern_oml.png "")

3. In the Create Pattern Stage dialog, for Name, enter **Score** and press **Save**.
   ![Configure OML stage](./images/oml_dlg.png "")

4. In the field **OML server url** enter **ADB URL** from the Terraform output
5. In the field **Tenant** enter **Tenant OCID** from the Terraform output
6. In the field **OML Services Name** enter **ADB Name** from the Terraform output
7. In the field **Username** enter **omluser**
7. In the field **Password** enter **Admin Password** from the Terraform output
7. In the field **OML\_Model** enter **score\_promo**
8. In **Input Fields** select **CITY**, **GENRE\_ID**, **INCOME**, **INSUFF\_FUNDS\_INCIDENTS**, and **NUM\_CARS**.
9. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the changes.

  ![OML Stage finished](./images/oml_fields.png "")

10. Wait for changes to apply and events to appear in the Live Event Output. The rightmost column in output is **SCORING** and has typically values up to 0.1. We will use scores above 0.06 later to determine candidates for promotion.

   ![OML stage with data](./images/oml_scores.png "")


## Task 5: Add Target to Write to Data Warehouse

We want to write all score results to a data warehouse for later analysis. We add a target here prior to filtering. 

1. Right-click the Score stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Target**.
   ![Add target](./images/add_dwhtarget.png "")

2. In the Create Target Stage dialog, for Name, enter **WriteToADW** and press **Save**.
   ![Config target stasge](./images/dwhtarget_dlg.png "")

2. On the Target Mapping panel, press **Create**.
   ![Map target](./images/create_target.png "")

3. On the first page of the Create Target dialog, for Name, enter **WriteToADW**.

4. For Target Type, select **Database Table**.

5. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target](./images/dwhtarget1.png "")

6. On the second page of the Create Target dialog, for Connection, select **ADB\_Connection**.

7. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target page 2](./images/dwhtarget2.png "")

8. On the last page of the Create dialog, for Table Name, select **PROMO\_CUSTOMER**.

9. Press **Save**.

  ![Create Target page 3](./images/dwhtarget4.png "")

10. All fields of the events are automatically mapped to target fields as they have the same name. Wait for changes to apply and events to appear in the Live Event Output.

  ![Create Target finished](./images/dwhtarget_done.png "")



## Task 6: Filter Customers based on ML Score

In this task we will add a Query Stage to filter events by the ML score. Only events with a score above 0.04 should proceed.

1. Right-click the Score stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Query**.
   ![Create Query](./images/query2_create.png "")

2. In the Create Query Stage dialog, for Name enter **EnrichActivity**.

3. Press **Save**.
  ![Name Query](./images/query2_name.png "")

4. Select the Filter tab on the right-hand side

5. Press the **Add Filter** button.
   ![Add Filter](./images/query2_filter.png "")

6. In the three condition fields select **Score > SCORING**, **greater than**, and type in **0.06**
   ![Set condition for filter](./images/query2_condition.png "")

7. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the changes.

  ![Filter finished](./images/query2_done.png "")


## Task 7: Add Target to Send Offer to Customer

In the final task we create a Kafka target to send out offer messages that will be relayed to the customer through downstream applications. 

1. Right-click the Filter stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Target**.
   ![Add target](./images/add_kafkatarget.png "")

2. In the Create Target Stage dialog, for Name, enter **SendOffer** and press **Save**.
   ![Create target stage](./images/kafkatarget_dlg.png "")

2. On the Target Mapping panel, press **Create**.
   ![Create target](./images/create_kafkatarget.png "")

3. On the first page of the Create Target dialog, for Name, enter **SendOffer**.

4. For Target Type, select **Kafka**.

5. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target page 1](./images/kafkatarget1.png "")

6. On the second page of the Create Target dialog, for Connection, select **Kafka**.

7. For Topic, enter **CustomerOffer**.

8. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target page 2](./images/kafkatarget2.png "")

9.  On the third page of the Create Stream dialog, press **Next** without changes.

10. On the last page of the Create dialog, you can leave all field mappings unchanged. The JSON document inside Kafka events will contain these fields.

11. Press **Save**.

  ![Create Target page 3](./images/kafkatarget4.png "")


12. Wait for the changes to apply and new events to be displayed in the Live Event Output. The pipeline is now finished and produces offers to customers.

  ![Create Target page 3](./images/pipeline_finished.png "")


## Task 8: Publish Pipeline

The pipeline currently runs in draft mode for developers, meaning that it will stop when the editor is closed, and no output is written to the targets. To run a pipeline in production, it needs to be published.

1. Press the **Publish** button on the upper right.

  ![Publish Button](./images/publish_button.png "")

2. In the publish dialog you can set resource allocation and runtime parameters for the pipeline. Leave the defaults unchanged and press the **Publish** button.

  ![Publish Dialog](./images/publish_dlg.png "")

3. Wait for the pipeline to get published, After the pipeline is published, the status is shown on the upper right. The pipeline is now in production and writes to Autonomous Data Warehouse and Kafka. 

  ![Publish Done](./images/publish_done.png "")




You have now successfully completed Introduction to GoldenGate Stream Analytics!

## Learn More

* [GoldenGate Stream Analytics](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/fusion-middleware/osa/19.1/using/introduction-goldengate-stream-analytics.html)

## Acknowledgements

* **Author** - Alex Kotopoulis, Director of Product Management, Data Integration Development
* **Contributors** - Hope Fisher and Kaylien Phan, Database Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Hope Fisher, June 2023

Commit message:

Recaptured some screens and fixed description based on UI and behavior changes. (#101)
* New placeholder introduction

* Updated Lab 2 with new instructions and images

* Added new prepare pipeline changes

* Fixes for image alt text and escaping of underscores

* Minor fixes in markup descriptions.

* renaming dir to ocw23-sandbox

* Remove simplified steps, reorder steps in L2

* updating  images, description because UI changes

* Changed numbering in Task 4

* Added prerequisite

ggsa-pipeline/setup-pipeline/setup-pipeline.md, after:

# Setup a Stream Analytics Pipeline

## Introduction

Estimated Time: 20 minutes

This lab focuses on creating a pipeline and establishing stages, filters, and visualizations.

### Objectives
* Learn how to create pipelines
* Understand different stage types such as stream, query, pattern, target
* Configure complex stage type
* Publish a pipeline

### Prerequisites
* Completion of Lab 2: Prepare a Stream Analytics Pipeline

## Task 1: Create a pipeline

Now that we have created deployment and connections, we can open the Stream Analytics console and start building a pipeline.

1. Open the GGSA console on the Catalog page. If you don't have it open, please repeat lab 1, task 1, steps 1-4.

2. In the catalog page, click on **Create New Item** and select **Pipeline**.

   ![Create Pipeline](./images/create_pipeline.png "")

3. On the Create Pipeline dialog, for Name, enter **MoviePromotion**.

4. For Stream, select **ActivityStream**

5. Press **Save**.

   ![Create Pipeline page 1](./images/pipeline_dlg.png "")

6. The pipeline editor opens. At this point the pipeline is being deployed in draft mode, which will take 1-2 min. Please wait until "Starting Pipeline..." at the bottom disappears and events are started to be listed. You can press the **Got it** button on the help text appearing next to the ActivityStream stage.

   ![View Pipeline](./images/initial_pipeline.png "")

## Task 2: Enrich Events with Database References and Select Columns

In this task we will add a Query Stage, which, much like a SQL Select statement, can join, filter, and aggregate events and select and tranform columns.

1. Right-click the ActivityStream stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Query**.
   ![Create Query](./images/create_query1.png "")

2. In the Create Query Stage dialog, for Name enter **EnrichActivity**.

3. Press **Save**.
  ![Name Query](./images/name_query1.png "")

4. Press the **Add Source** button on the right side of the screen.

5. In the menu select **Customer**.

   ![Query add source](./images/query1_add_source.png "")

6. Ignore errors appearing on the screen, they warn that the current join is incomplete. Press again the **Add Source** button on the right side of the screen.

7. In the menu select **Movie**.

   ![Query add movie source](./images/query1_add_movie.png "")

8. Press **Add Condition**

   ![Query add condition](./images/query1_add_condition.png "")

9. In the three condition fields select **Movie > MOVIE\_ID**, **equals**, and **after\_MOVIE\_ID**

  ![Query add condition for movie](./images/query1_movie_condition.png "")

10. Press **Add Condition** again

9. In the three condition fields select **Customer > CUST\_ID**, **equals**, and **after\_CUST\_ID**

  ![Query add condition for custid](./images/query1_customer_condition.png "")

12. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the condition.

   ![Finished query](./images/query1_click.png "")

13. Click on **Columns** above the Live Event Output. 
   ![Map columns](./images/column_button.png "")

14. On the Columns dialog, first press the **<<** button to unselect all columns. They are moved to the left side. 

15. Select the following columns and press **>** to move them to the right side. You can do multi-select with Ctrl button or move one-by-one. 

   after\_GENRE\_ID, LOC\_LAT, LOC\_LONG, AGE, INCOME, INSUFF\_FUNDS\_INCIDENTS, NUM\_CARS, CITY, FIRST\_NAME, CUST\_ID, LAST\_NAME, TITLE

   ![Select columns](./images/column_dlg.png "")

16. Press Save to close the dialog.

17. We need to rename the column **after\_GENRE\_ID** to **GENRE\_ID**. Double-click on the **after\_GENRE\_ID** column header. An edit field will appear, change the name to **GENRE\_ID**. Press Enter after renaming.
   ![rename genre id](./images/rename_genre_id.png "")

## Task 3: Filter Customers with Geo Fence
In this task we will add a Query Stage, which, much like a SQL Select statement, can join, filter, and aggregate events and select and tranform columns.

1. Right-click the EnrichActivity stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Pattern**.
   ![Add Geo Fence pattern](./images/add_geofence.png "")

2. In the Select Pattern dialog, choose the category **Spatial** and then the Pattern **Geo Fence**.
   ![Pick Geofence](./images/pattern_geofence.png "")

3. In the Create Pattern Stage dialog, for Name, enter **FilterRegion** and press **Save**.
   ![Setup Geo Fence](./images/geofence_dlg.png "")

4. In the field **Geo Fence** select **Regions**
5. In the field **Latitude** select **LOC\_LAT**
6. In the field **Longitude** select **LOC\_LONG**
7. In the field **Object Key** select **CUST\_ID**
8. In **Tracking Events** deselect **Near**, **Exit**, and **Stay**, so that only **Enter** remains checked.
9. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the changes.

  ![Geo Fence finished](./images/config_geofence.png "")

10. Wait for changes to apply and events to appear in the Live Event Output. Then press the Visualizations tab and see customer locations within the West Coast and East Coast regions.

  ![Geo Fence map](./images/geofence_map.png "")

## Task 4: Add OML Machine Learning Scoring

We can now score customer events based on the likelihood to respond to a promotion. We have a pre-trained OML model in the autonomous data warehouse that we can use.

1. Right-click the FilterRegion stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Pattern**.
   ![Create OML](./images/add_oml.png "")

2. In the Select Pattern dialog, choose the category **Machine Learning** and then the Pattern **Oracle Machine Learning Services**.
   ![Pick Pattern](./images/pattern_oml.png "")

3. In the Create Pattern Stage dialog, for Name, enter **Score** and press **Save**.
   ![Configure OML stage](./images/oml_dlg.png "")

4. In the field **OML server url** enter **ADB URL** from the Terraform output. When copying the URL, make sure no / character is added to the end of the URL. 
5. In the field **Tenant** enter **Tenant OCID** from the Terraform output
6. In the field **OML Services Name** enter **ADB Name** from the Terraform output
7. In the field **Username** enter **omluser**
8. In the field **Password** enter **Admin Password** from the Terraform output
9. In the field **OML\_Model** enter **score\_promo**
10. In **Input Fields** select **CITY**, **GENRE\_ID**, **INCOME**, **INSUFF\_FUNDS\_INCIDENTS**, and **NUM\_CARS**.
11. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the changes.

  ![OML Stage finished](./images/oml_fields.png "")

12. Wait for changes to apply and events to appear in the Live Event Output. The rightmost column in output is **SCORING** and has typically values up to 0.1. We will use scores above 0.04 later to determine candidates for promotion.

   ![OML stage with data](./images/oml_scores.png "")


## Task 5: Add Target to Write to Data Warehouse

We want to write all score results to a data warehouse for later analysis. We add a target here prior to filtering. 

1. Right-click the Score stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Target**.
   ![Add target](./images/add_dwhtarget.png "")

2. In the Create Target Stage dialog, for Name, enter **WriteToADW** and press **Save**.
   ![Config target stasge](./images/dwhtarget_dlg.png "")

2. On the Target Mapping panel, press **Create**.
   ![Map target](./images/create_target.png "")

3. On the first page of the Create Target dialog, for Name, enter **WriteToADW**.

4. For Target Type, select **Database Table**.

5. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target](./images/dwhtarget1.png "")

6. On the second page of the Create Target dialog, for Connection, select **ADB\_Connection**.

7. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target page 2](./images/dwhtarget2.png "")

8. On the last page of the Create dialog, for Table Name, select **PROMO\_CUSTOMER**.

9. Press **Save**.

  ![Create Target page 3](./images/dwhtarget4.png "")

10. All fields of the events are automatically mapped to target fields as they have the same name. Wait for changes to apply and events to appear in the Live Event Output.

  ![Create Target finished](./images/dwhtarget_done.png "")



## Task 6: Filter Customers based on ML Score

In this task we will add a Query Stage to filter events by the ML score. Only events with a score above 0.04 should proceed.

1. Right-click the Score stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Query**.
   ![Create Query](./images/query2_create.png "")

2. In the Create Query Stage dialog, for Name enter **FilterScore**.

3. Press **Save**.
  ![Name Query](./images/query2_name.png "")

4. Select the Filter tab on the right-hand side

5. Press the **Add Filter** button.
   ![Add Filter](./images/query2_filter.png "")

6. In the three condition fields select **Score > SCORING**, **greater than or equals**, and type in **0.04**
   ![Set condition for filter](./images/query2_condition.png "")

7. Click somewhere outside the condition box to apply the changes.

  ![Filter finished](./images/query2_done.png "")


## Task 7: Add Target to Send Offer to Customer

In the final task we create a Kafka target to send out offer messages that will be relayed to the customer through downstream applications. 

1. Right-click the Filter stage and select in the menu **Add a Stage** and in the submenu **Target**.
   ![Add target](./images/add_kafkatarget.png "")

2. In the Create Target Stage dialog, for Name, enter **SendOffer** and press **Save**.
   ![Create target stage](./images/kafkatarget_dlg.png "")

2. On the Target Mapping panel, press **Create**.
   ![Create target](./images/create_kafkatarget.png "")

3. On the first page of the Create Target dialog, for Name, enter **SendOffer**.

4. For Target Type, select **Kafka**.

5. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target page 1](./images/kafkatarget1.png "")

6. On the second page of the Create Target dialog, for Connection, select **Kafka**.

7. For Topic, enter **CustomerOffer**.

8. Press **Next**.

   ![Create Target page 2](./images/kafkatarget2.png "")

9.  On the third page of the Create Stream dialog, press **Next** without changes.

10. On the last page of the Create dialog, you can leave all field mappings unchanged. The JSON document inside Kafka events will contain these fields.

11. Press **Save**.

  ![Create Target page 3](./images/kafkatarget4.png "")


12. Wait for the changes to apply and new events to be displayed in the Live Event Output. The pipeline is now finished and produces offers to customers.

  ![Pipeline finished](./images/pipeline_final.png "")


## Task 8: Publish Pipeline

The pipeline currently runs in draft mode for developers, meaning that it will stop when the editor is closed, and no output is written to the targets. To run a pipeline in production, it needs to be published.

1. Press the **Publish** button on the upper right.

  ![Publish Button](./images/publish_button.png "")

2. In the publish dialog you can set resource allocation and runtime parameters for the pipeline. Leave the defaults unchanged and press the **Publish** button.

  ![Publish Dialog](./images/publish_dlg.png "")

3. Wait for the pipeline to get published, After the pipeline is published, the status is shown on the upper right. The pipeline is now in production and writes to Autonomous Data Warehouse and Kafka. 

  ![Publish Done](./images/publish_done.png "")




You have now successfully completed Introduction to GoldenGate Stream Analytics!

## Learn More

* [GoldenGate Stream Analytics](https://docs.oracle.com/en/middleware/fusion-middleware/osa/19.1/using/introduction-goldengate-stream-analytics.html)

## Acknowledgements

* **Author** - Alex Kotopoulis, Director of Product Management, Data Integration Development
* **Contributors** - Hope Fisher and Kaylien Phan, Database Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Hope Fisher, June 2023
