ogg-to-ggs/oggmp-atp/oggmp-atp.md, before:

# Connect Oracle GoldenGate to Autonomous Transaction Processing

## Introduction

For the purposes of this workshop, Oracle Autonomous Transaction Processing (ATP) serves as the source database for your Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace deployment. In this lab, you learn how to connect your Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace deployment to ATP.

Estimated time: 10 minutes

Watch the video below for a walk through of the lab.
[](youtube:Vw2rWRLSRjk)

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
* Download the ATP credentials
* Use Cloud Shell to upload the ATP credentials to the Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace compute instance
* Add the ATP credentials in the Oracle GoldenGate Administration Server

### Prerequisites

* This lab assumes that you completed all preceding labs.
* To connect to the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate compute image, you must have an [SSH key pair](https://docs.oracle.com/en/learn/generate_ssh_keys/index.html#introduction).
* Have a text editor on hand to copy values that you'll need later.
* For workshop environment users, your &lt;user-number&gt; is part of your User name, as found in your Workshop Details. For example, for LL1234-USER, the user-number is 1234.

## Task 1: Download the Source ATP client credentials

1.  Navigate back to the Source ATP Autonomous Database Details page, and then click **Database connection**.

    ![Click Database Connection on the source ATP database details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-01.png " ")

2.  In the DB Connection panel, click **Download wallet**.

    ![Click Download wallet in DB Connection panel](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-02.png " ")

3.  In the Download Client Credentials (Wallet) dialog, enter the Source ATP Admin password twice, and then click **Download**.

    ![After enter the source database's admin password in the Download Client Credentials dialog window, click Download](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-03.png " ")

4.  **Close** the Database connection panel.

## Task 2: Upload the Source ATP credentials to Oracle GoldenGate

1.  From the Oracle Cloud Console navigation menu, click **Compute**, and then click **Instances**.

    ![Click Instances in the Oracle Cloud console navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-01-compute.png " ")

2.  Under **List Scope**, ensure that you select the correct **Compartment** for this workshop. You should then see **Oracle GoldenGate 21.1.0.0.1 Microservices Edition for Oracle** in the list of Instances.

    > **Note:** For Sandbox workshop users, you can find your compartment information in the Workshop Details of this LiveLab.

3.  In the Oracle Cloud Console global header, click **Developer tools**, and then click **Cloud Shell**. The Cloud Shell drawer opens at the bottom of your screen.

    ![Click Developer tools in the Oracle Cloud console global header](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-03-cloud-shell.png " ")

4.  From the Cloud Shell Settings menu (gear icon), select **Upload**.

    ![Click Upload in the Cloud Shell menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-04-cloud-shell-upload.png " ")

5.  In the File Upload to your Home Directory dialog, drag and drop or select the SourceATP wallet zip file you downloaded in Task 1, and then click **Upload**.

    ![Upload the wallet zip file to Cloud Shell's File Upload to your Home Directory dialog window](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-05-upload-wallet.png " ")

6.  Repeat step 5 to upload your SSH private key. Click **Hide** to close the File Transfers dialog.

7.  To ensure the SSH key permissions are valid, enter the following command in Cloud Shell, replacing `<private-SSH-key>` with the name of your private key:

    ```
    <copy>chmod 600 <private-SSH-key></copy>
    ```

    ![Enter chmod 600 followed by the name of your private key into Cloud Shell](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-07-chmod.png " ")

8.  Copy the Public IP from the list of Compute Instances.

    ![Copy the Public IP of your compute instance from the list of compute instances, or from the compute instance's details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-08-publicIP.png " ")

9.  In Cloud Shell, enter the following connect to the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate compute instance:

    ```
    <copy>sftp -i <private-SSH-key> opc@<ip-address></copy>
    ```

    ![Enter the sftp command into Cloud Shell](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-09-sftp.png " ")

10. Enter the following `put` command to upload the SourceATP wallet file to /home/opc.

    ```
    <copy>put <Wallet_ATP-filename>.zip</copy>
    ```

    ![Enter the put command to upload the wallet zip file to the home directory](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-10-put.png " ")

11. Enter `exit` to close the sftp connection.

12. SSH to the compute instance.

    ```
    <copy>ssh -i <private-SSH-key> opc@<ip-address></copy>
    ```

13. Enter 'ls' to list the contents in the current directory. You should see two files, ogg-credentials.json and your wallet file.

14. Make a new directory called **wallet\_ATP** and then extract the contents to that directory.

    ```
<copy>mkdir wallet_ATP
unzip <wallet_ATP-filname>.zip -d wallet_ATP</copy>
    ```

    ![Enter the mkdir command to make a new directory for the contents of the wallet zip file, then unzip the wallet into the new directory](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-14-unzip.png " ")

14. Change directories to wallet\_ATP.

    ```
    <copy>cd wallet_ATP</copy>
    ```

15. Enter `pwd` and then copy the full path to the wallet files to be used in a later Task.

    ![Enter the pwd command to copy the full path to the wallet files](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-15-pwd.png " ")

> **Note:** Leave Cloud Shell open.

## Task 3: Get the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate oggadmin credentials

1.  Open Cloud Shell if you previously closed the connection and SSH to the compute instance.

    ```
    <copy>ssh -i <private-SSH-key> opc@<ip-address></copy>
    ```

2.  Enter `ls` to list the contents of the current directory.

3.  Open ogg-credentials.json and copy the output.

    ```
    <copy>cat ogg-credentials.json</copy>
    ```

    ![Enter cat ogg-credentials.json to copy its contents](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-03-oggadmin.png " ")

4.  Exit Cloud Shell.

## Task 4: Add the Source ATP credential in the Oracle GoldenGate Administration Server

First, copy the SourceATP connection string from the OCI GoldenGate Deployment Console (ggsinstance). If it's not already open, launch the OCI GoldenGate Deployment Console from the GGSDeployment Details page in the Oracle Cloud Console. Log in using the user name and password you entered in Lab: Create OCI GoldenGate Resources, Task 1, steps 12 and 13.

1.  In the OCI GoldenGate Deployment Console (ggsinstance), open the navigation menu and then click **Configuration**.

    ![Click Configuration in the OCI GoldenGate deployment console navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-02.png " ")

2.  Copy the SourceATP connection string in the User ID column, and then paste it into a text editor.

    >**NOTE:** If you don't see your Source and Target databases here, stop and restart your deployment in the Oracle Cloud console.

    ![Copy the source database's connection string and paste it into a text editor](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-03.png " ")

3.  Edit the SourceATP connection string, replacing the value for **MY\_WALLET\_DIRECTORY** with the location where you unzipped the wallet_ATP.zip. For example, **/home/opc/wallet\_ATP**.

    ![Replace the existing value for MY_WALLET_DIRECTORY with the path to the wallet files](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-04.png " ")

4.  In a new browser tab or window, use the Public IP and port 443 (**https://&lt;Public-IP&gt;:443**) to open the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate Service Manager. Ignore the security warning and proceed with connecting to the IP.

5.  Log in to the Service Manager using the credentials you copied in Task 3.

    > **Note:** The Username is `oggadmin` and the password is the credential string.

    ![Sign in to Service Manager](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-05-oggcredentials.png " ")

6.  In the Service Manager, under **Services**, click the port number associated with the Administration Server. The Administration Server opens in a new browser tab. If you're prompted to log in again, use the same oggadmin credentials.

    ![Click the Administration Server's port number in the list of Services](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-03.png " ")

7.  In the Administration Server, open the navigation menu, and then select **Configuration**.

    ![Click Configuration in the Administration Server's navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-06.png " ")

8.  Click **Add Credential**.

    ![Click Add Credential on the Credentials page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-09.png " ")

9.  Enter the following information, and then click **Submit**:

    * For **Credential Domain**, enter **OracleGoldenGate**.
    * For **Credential Alias**, enter the ATP database name (low) from /home/opc/wallet\_ATP/tnsnames.ora. For example, **atp&lt;user-number&gt;_low**.
    * For **User ID**, paste the modified ATP connection string from step 3.
    * For **Password**, enter the SourceATP GGADMIN password. *Workshop environment users can copy this value from the Workshop Details.*

    ![Add a credential for atp_low](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-10.png " ")

    > **Note:** You can use Cloud Shell to view the contents of tnsnames.ora.

    ![Example of contents of tnsnames.ora](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-09-atplow.png " ")

10. Click **Connect to Database**.

    ![Click Connect to Database](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-14.png " ")

11. Next to TRANDATA Information, click **Add TRANDATA**.

    ![Click Add Trandata](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-15.png " ")

12. For **Schema Name**, enter **SRC\_OCIGGLL**, and then click **Submit**. *You only need to click Submit once. Click Search, and then enter SRC_OCIGGLL to verify.*

    ![Enter schema name as directory in step 12 instructions](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/01-05-trandata.png " ")

In this lab, you created a connection from the Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace instance to the source ATP database. 

**Proceed to the next lab**.

## Acknowledgements

* **Author** - Jenny Chan, Consulting User Assistance Developer, Database User Assistance
* **Contributors** -  Denis Gray, Database Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Jenny Chan, March 2023

Commit message:

workshop #4841 and #11041: update screenshots, typos (#63)
* update to 11041 - fix typo

* updates to workshop 2920

* updates to workshop 2920

* updates to workshop 4861

* updates to workshop 2920

* updates to workshop 4841

* updates to workshop 11041

* update screenshots to ggs-common

* updates to workshop #11041

* updates to workshop #4841

* updates to workshop #2920

* Update to workshop 11041 - fixed link

* updates to workshop 11041 - renamed images

* renamed files in ggs-common

* updates to workshop #4841

* updates to workshop #2920

* Update to workshop #11041

* Updates to workshop #11041

* updates to workshop #11041

* updates to workshop #11092

* update redwood images

* update redwood images + qa report + revisions

* workshop 11092: edit screenshots and QA report

* workshop 11092: fix typo

* 4841: typos

* 4861: update screenshots + typo + quarterly QA report

* #4861: additional changes + screenshot updates

* #4861: update screenshots + typo

* #11041: lab updates

* workshop #4841 and #11041: update screenshots, typos

update screenshots, typos

---------

Co-authored-by: Michelle Malcher <48925485+malcherm@users.noreply.github.com>

ogg-to-ggs/oggmp-atp/oggmp-atp.md, after:

# Connect Oracle GoldenGate to Autonomous Transaction Processing

## Introduction

For the purposes of this workshop, Oracle Autonomous Transaction Processing (ATP) serves as the source database for your Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace deployment. In this lab, you learn how to connect your Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace deployment to ATP.

Estimated time: 10 minutes

Watch the video below for a walk through of the lab.
[](youtube:Vw2rWRLSRjk)

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
* Download the ATP credentials
* Use Cloud Shell to upload the ATP credentials to the Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace compute instance
* Add the ATP credentials in the Oracle GoldenGate Administration Server

### Prerequisites

* This lab assumes that you completed all preceding labs.
* To connect to the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate compute image, you must have an [SSH key pair](https://docs.oracle.com/en/learn/generate_ssh_keys/index.html#introduction).
* Have a text editor on hand to copy values that you'll need later.
* For workshop environment users, your &lt;user-number&gt; is part of your User name, as found in your Workshop Details. For example, for LL1234-USER, the user-number is 1234.

## Task 1: Download the Target Autonomous Data Warehouse Client Credentials

1.  In the OCI Console breadcrumb, click **Autonomous Database**, and then select **TargetADW** from the list of databases.

    ![Autonomous Data Warehouse in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](./images/01-01a-auto-db.png " ")

    ![Autonomous Database page](./images/01-01b-targetadw.png " ")

2.  On the Target Autonomous Data Warehouse Details page, click **DB Connection**.

    ![Target Autonomous Data Warehouse Details page](./images/01-02-db-connection.png " ")

3.  In the DB Connection panel, click **Download Wallet**.

    ![Database Connection page](./images/01-03-download-wallet.png " ")

4.  In the Download Client Credentials (Wallet) dialog, enter the Target Autonomous Data Warehouse Admin password twice, and then click **Download**.

    ![Download Wallet page](./images/01-04-download-wallet.png " ")

5.  Close the DB Connection panel.

    ![Close Download Wallet page](./images/01-05-close-db-connection.png " ")

## Task 2: Upload the Target Autonomous Data Warehouse Credentials to Oracle GoldenGate

1.  In the Oracle Cloud Console, open the navigation menu (hamburger icon), click **Compute**, and then click **Instances**.

    ![Instances in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](./images/02-01-compute.png " ")

2.  Under **List Scope**, ensure that the correct **Compartment** is selected for your workshop. You can find your compartment information in the Workshop Details of this LiveLab.

3.  In the Oracle Cloud Console global header, click **Cloud Shell**. The Cloud Shell drawer opens at the bottom of your screen.

    ![Instances page](./images/02-03-cloudshell.png " ")

4.  From the Cloud Shell drawer menu (hamburger icon) select **Upload**.

    ![Cloud Shell drawer menu](./images/02-04-cs-upload.png " ")

5.  In the File Upload to your Home Directory dialog, drag and drop or select the TargetADW wallet file you downloaded in Task 1, and then click **Upload**.

    ![Upload a file on Cloud Shell](./images/02-05-upload.png " ")

6.  Repeat step 5 to upload your SSH private key. Click **Hide** to close the File Transfers dialog.

7.  To ensure the SSH key permissions are valid, enter the following command in Cloud Shell, replacing `<private-SSH-key>` with the name of your private key:

    ```
    <copy>chmod 600 <private-SSH-key></copy>
    ```

    ![Enter chmod 600 followed by the name of your private key into Cloud Shell](./images/02-07-chmod.png " ")

8.  Copy the Public IP from the list of Compute Instances.

    ![Copy the Public IP of your compute instance from the list of compute instances, or from the compute instance's details page](./images/02-08-public-ip.png " ")

9.  In Cloud Shell, enter the following connect to the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate compute instance:

    ```
    <copy>sftp -i <private-SSH-key> opc@<ip-address></copy>
    ```

    ![Enter the sftp command into Cloud Shell](./images/02-09-sftp.png " ")

10. Enter the following `put` command to upload the SourceATP wallet file to /home/opc.

    ```
    <copy>put <Wallet_ATP-filename>.zip</copy>
    ```

    ![Enter the put command to upload the wallet zip file to the home directory](./images/02-10-put.png " ")

11. Enter `exit` to close the sftp connection.

12. SSH to the compute instance.

    ```
    <copy>ssh -i <private-SSH-key> opc@<ip-address></copy>
    ```

13. Enter 'ls' to list the contents in the current directory. You should see two files, ogg-credentials.json and your wallet file.

14. Make a new directory called **wallet\_ATP** and then extract the contents to that directory.

    ```
<copy>mkdir wallet_ATP
unzip <wallet_ATP-filname>.zip -d wallet_ATP</copy>
    ```

    ![Enter the mkdir command to make a new directory for the contents of the wallet zip file, then unzip the wallet into the new directory](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-14-unzip.png " ")

14. Change directories to wallet\_ATP.

    ```
    <copy>cd wallet_ATP</copy>
    ```

15. Enter `pwd` and then copy the full path to the wallet files to be used in a later Task.

    ![Enter the pwd command to copy the full path to the wallet files](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/02-15-pwd.png " ")

> **Note:** Leave Cloud Shell open.

## Task 3: Get the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate oggadmin credentials

1.  Open Cloud Shell if you previously closed the connection and SSH to the compute instance.

    ```
    <copy>ssh -i <private-SSH-key> opc@<ip-address></copy>
    ```

2.  Enter `ls` to list the contents of the current directory.

3.  Open ogg-credentials.json and copy the output.

    ```
    <copy>cat ogg-credentials.json</copy>
    ```

    ![Enter cat ogg-credentials.json to copy its contents](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-03-oggadmin.png " ")

4.  Exit Cloud Shell.

## Task 4: Add the Source ATP credential in the Oracle GoldenGate Administration Server

First, copy the SourceATP connection string from the OCI GoldenGate Deployment Console (ggsinstance). If it's not already open, launch the OCI GoldenGate Deployment Console from the GGSDeployment Details page in the Oracle Cloud Console. Log in using the user name and password you entered in Lab: Create OCI GoldenGate Resources, Task 1, steps 12 and 13.

1.  In the OCI GoldenGate Deployment Console (ggsinstance), open the navigation menu and then click **Configuration**.

    ![Click Configuration in the OCI GoldenGate deployment console navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-02.png " ")

2.  Copy the SourceATP connection string in the User ID column, and then paste it into a text editor.

    >**NOTE:** If you don't see your Source and Target databases here, stop and restart your deployment in the Oracle Cloud console.

    ![Copy the source database's connection string and paste it into a text editor](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-03.png " ")

3.  Edit the SourceATP connection string, replacing the value for **MY\_WALLET\_DIRECTORY** with the location where you unzipped the wallet_ATP.zip. For example, **/home/opc/wallet\_ATP**.

    ![Replace the existing value for MY_WALLET_DIRECTORY with the path to the wallet files](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-04.png " ")

4.  In a new browser tab or window, use the Public IP and port 443 (**https://&lt;Public-IP&gt;:443**) to open the Marketplace Oracle GoldenGate Service Manager. Ignore the security warning and proceed with connecting to the IP.

5.  Log in to the Service Manager using the credentials you copied in Task 3.

    > **Note:** The Username is `oggadmin` and the password is the credential string.

    ![Sign in to Service Manager](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-05-oggcredentials.png " ")

6.  In the Service Manager, under **Services**, click the port number associated with the Administration Server. The Administration Server opens in a new browser tab. If you're prompted to log in again, use the same oggadmin credentials.

    ![Click the Administration Server's port number in the list of Services](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-03.png " ")

7.  In the Administration Server, open the navigation menu, and then select **Configuration**.

    ![Click Configuration in the Administration Server's navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-06.png " ")

8.  Click **Add Credential**.

    ![Click Add Credential on the Credentials page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/03-09.png " ")

9.  Enter the following information, and then click **Submit**:

    * For **Credential Domain**, enter **OracleGoldenGate**.
    * For **Credential Alias**, enter the ATP database name (low) from /home/opc/wallet\_ATP/tnsnames.ora. For example, **atp&lt;user-number&gt;_low**.
    * For **User ID**, paste the modified ATP connection string from step 3.
    * For **Password**, enter the SourceATP GGADMIN password. *Workshop environment users can copy this value from the Workshop Details.*

    ![Add a credential for atp_low](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-10.png " ")

    > **Note:** You can use Cloud Shell to view the contents of tnsnames.ora.

    ![Example of contents of tnsnames.ora](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-09-atplow.png " ")

10. Click **Connect to Database**.

    ![Click Connect to Database](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-14.png " ")

11. Next to TRANDATA Information, click **Add TRANDATA**.

    ![Click Add Trandata](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/04-15.png " ")

12. For **Schema Name**, enter **SRC\_OCIGGLL**, and then click **Submit**. *You only need to click Submit once. Click Search, and then enter SRC_OCIGGLL to verify.*

    ![Enter schema name as directory in step 12 instructions](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/oggmp-atp/images/01-05-trandata.png " ")

In this lab, you created a connection from the Oracle GoldenGate Marketplace instance to the source ATP database. 

**Proceed to the next lab**.

## Acknowledgements

* **Author** - Jenny Chan, Consulting User Assistance Developer, Database User Assistance
* **Contributors** -  Denis Gray, Database Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Jenny Chan, March 2023
