atp-objectstorage/create/create-gb.md, before:

# Create the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate resources

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to create Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GoldenGate resources that you'll need to complete this workshop.

Estimated time: 30 minutes

### About Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate resources

A Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate deployment manages the resources it requires to function. You can create different deployments types such as, Oracle Database, MySQL, or Big Data. The GoldenGate deployment also lets you access the GoldenGate deployment console, where you can access the OCI GoldenGate deployment console to create and manage processes such as Extracts and Replicats.

Connections capture source and target credential information. A connection also enables networking between the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GoldenGate service tenancy virtual cloud network (VCN) and your tenancy VCN using a private endpoint.

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
* Locate Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate in the Console
* Create an OCI GoldenGate deployment for the Autonomous Database
* Create an OCI GoldenGate deployment for Oracle Object Storage
* Create connections for the source Autonomous Databases and target Oracle Object Storage bucket
* Assign connections to deployments


### Prerequisites
In Task 5, you must upload a private key and enter the corresponding public key fingerprint. To add an API key:

1.  Oracle Cloud console global navigation bar, click **Profile** (user icon), and then select **User Settings**.

    ![Oracle Cloud console User menu](images/00-01-profile.png " ")

2.  On the user details page, under **Resources**, click **API Keys**.

3.  Click **Add API Key**.

    ![Resources on User details page](images/00-03-apikey.png " ")

4.  In the Add API Key dialog, click **Download Private Key** to download the key, and then click **Add**.

    ![Download Private key](images/00-04-privatekey.png " ")

5.  In the Configuration File Preview dialog, copy the fingerprint to a text editor, and then click **Close**.

> **Note:** *Compartment names in the screenshots may differ from values that appear in your environment.*

## Task 1: Create a deployment for Autonomous Transaction Processing

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Oracle Database**, and select **GoldenGate**.

    ![GoldenGate in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/database-goldengate.png " ")

2.  On the GoldenGate **Overview** page, click **Deployments**.

    ![GoldenGate Overview page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-02-ggs-overview.png " ")

3.  You may need to select a compartment. Under List Scope, from the Comparment dropdown, expand the root compartment, and then select the compartment associated with your username. For example, if your LiveLab username is LL1234-user, expand root, and then select the compartment **LL1234-COMPARTMENT**.

4.  On the Deployments page, click **Create Deployment**.

    ![Deployments page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-04-create-deployment.png "")

5.  In the Create Deployment panel, enter **ATPDeployment** for Name.

6.  From the Compartment dropdown, select a compartment.

7.  For OCPU Count, enter **1**.

8.  For Subnet, select a subnet. If you're using the workshop environment, select **&lt;user&gt;pubsubnt**.

9.  For License type, select **Bring You Own License (BYOL)**.

10. Click **Show Advanced Options**, and then select **Create Public Endpoint**.

    ![Completed Create GoldenGate Deployment fields](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-10-create-deployment-summary.png " ")

11. Click **Next**.

12. From the Select a technology dropdown, select **Oracle Database**.

13. For GoldenGate Instance Name, enter **ATPinstance**.

14. For Administrator Username, enter **oggadmin**.

15. For Administrator Password, enter a password. Take note of this password.

16. Click **Create**.

    ![Completed GoldenGate details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-16-create-deployment-summary.png " ")

You're brought to the Deployment Details page. It takes a few minutes for the deployment to be created. Its status will change from CREATING to ACTIVE when it is ready for you to use.

## Task 2: Create a deployment for Oracle Object Storage

1.  On the Deployments page, click **Create Deployment**.

2.  In the Create Deployment panel, enter **OBJDeployment** for Name.

3.  From the Compartment dropdown, select a compartment.

4.  For OCPU Count, enter **1**.

5.  For Subnet, select a subnet. If you're using the workshop environment, select **&lt;user&gt;pubsubnt**.

6.  For License type, select **Bring You Own License (BYOL)**.

7.  Click **Show Advanced Options**, and then select **Create Public Endpoint**.

    ![Completed Create GoldenGate Deployment fields](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-07-bigdata.png " ")

8.  Click **Next**.

9.  From the Select a technology dropdown, select **Oracle Database**.

10. For GoldenGate Instance Name, enter **BDinstance**.

11. For Administrator Username, enter **oggadmin**.

12. For Administrator Password, enter a password. Take note of this password.

13. Click **Create**.

    ![Completed GoldenGate details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-13-bigdata.png " ")

You're brought to the Deployment Details page. It takes a few minutes for the deployment to be created. Its status will change from CREATING to ACTIVE when it is ready for you to use.

## Task 3: Create an Autonomous Database connection

Follow the steps below to create a connection for the source Oracle Autonomous Transaction Processing \(ATP\) Database.

1.  Use the Oracle Cloud Console breadcrumb to navigate back to the GoldenGate page.

    ![GoldenGate highlighted in Oracle Cloud Console breadcrumb](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-01-breadcrumb.png " ")

2.  Click **Connections**.

    ![Connections in GoldenGate menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-02-goldengatemenu.png " ")

3.  Click **Create Connection**.

    ![Connections page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-03-connections.png " ")

4.  In the Create Connection panel, for Name, enter **SourceATP**.

5.  From the Type dropdown, select **OCI Autonomous Database**.

6.  Click **Next**.

7.  For **Database in &lt;compartment-name&gt;**, click **Change Compartment**, select the compartment you created your ATP instance, and then select **SourceATP** from the dropdown. Some fields are autopopulated based on your selection.

8.  Enter a password for the `ggadmin` user in the Password field, and then click **Create**.

    ![Source Database details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-08-atpconnection.png)

    The connection becomes Active after a few minutes.

## Task 4: Unlock the GGADMIN user and enable supplemental logging for the source database

Oracle Autonomous Databases come with a GGADMIN user that is locked by default. The following steps guide you through how to unlock the GGADMIN user.

1.  From the Oracle Cloud Console **Navigation Menu** (hamburger icon), click **Oracle Database**, and then select **Autonomous Transaction Processing**.

	![Autonomous Transaction Processing in the Oracle Cloud Console navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/oracle/common/create/images/console/database-atp.png " ")

2.  From the list of databases, select **SourceATP**.

    ![Autonomous Transaction Processing page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-02-sourceatp.png " ")

3.  On the SourceATP Database Details page, click **Database Actions**.

    ![SourceATP Database Details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-03-db-tools.png " ")

    > **Note:** *If you're prompted to log in to Database Actions, use the SourceATP admin credentials located in the Workshop Details.*

4.  Under **Administration**, click **Database Users**.

    ![Database Actions](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/sql-dbusers.png " ")

5.  From the list of users, locate **GGADMIN**, and then click the ellipsis (three dots) icon and select **Edit**.

    ![Database users](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-06-locked.png " ")

6.  In the Edit User panel, deselect **Account is Locked**, enter the password you gave the ggadmin user in the database registration steps above, and then click **Apply Changes**.

    ![Edit user](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-07-edit.png " ")

    Note that the user icon changes from a padlock to a checkmark.

7.  Open the navigation menu (hamburger icon), and then under **Development**, select **SQL**.

    ![Open navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-08-sql.png " ")

8.  Enter the following into the Worksheet, and then click **Run Statement**.

    ```
    <copy>ALTER PLUGGABLE DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA;</copy>
    ```

    You can leave the SQL window open and continue with the next Task.

## Task 5: Create a connection for Oracle Object Storage

1.  Use the Oracle Cloud Console navigation menu to navigate back to GoldenGate.

2.  Click **Connections** and then **Create Connection**.

3.  In the Create Connection panel, enter **TargetObjStore** for Name.

4.  From the Type dropdown, select **OCI Object Storage**.

5.  Click **Next**.

6.  From the Region dropdown, select a region.

7.  For Private key configuration, drag-and-drop the private key (.pem) or select it from your local machine.

    >**Note**: *Refer to the Prerequisites section for instructions on how to obtain a private key.*

8.  Enter the corresponding public key fingerprint.

9.  Click **Create**.

    ![Target details](images/05-07-objstorageconnection.png " ")

    The Connection becomes Active after a few minutes.

## Task 6: Assign connections to deployments

After your deployments and connections become active, you can assign the connections to the appropriate deployments.

1.  In the GoldenGate menu, click **Deployments**.

2.  Select **ATPDeployment** to view its details.

3.  On the ATPDeployment details page, under Resources, click **Assigned connections**.

    ![Deployment details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-03-assignedconnections.png " ")

4.  Under Assigned connections, click **Assign connection**.

    ![Assigned connections](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-04-assignconnection.png " ")

5.  In the Assign connection dialog, from the **Connection** dropdown, select **SourceATP**, and then click **Assign connection**.

    ![Assign connection dialog](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-05-assignconnection.png " ")

6.  Use the breadcrumb to return to the Deployments page.

    ![Deployment details breadcrumb](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-06-breadcrumb.png " ")

7.  Repeat steps 2 to 6 to assign the TargetObjStore connection to the OBJDeployment.

    ![OBJDeployment details](images/06-07-bdconnection.png " ")

**Proceed to the next lab**.

## Learn More

* [Create a deployments](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/llyhq/index.html)
* [Create a connection to Autonomous Database](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/tqrlh/index.html)
* [Create a connection to OCI Object Storage](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/sjsrj/index.html)
* [Assign connections to a deployment](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/qsqts/index.html)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Jenny Chan, Consulting User Assistance Developer, Database User Assistance
* **Contributors** -  Deniz Sendil, Database Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Jenny Chan, July 2022

Commit message:

Workshop 11092: Incorporated PM feedback
* Fixed broken image link
* Elaborated on a couple steps as recommended by PM
* Expanded on a few notes as recommended by PM

atp-objectstorage/create/create-gb.md, after:

# Create the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate resources

## Introduction

This lab walks you through the steps to create Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GoldenGate resources that you'll need to complete this workshop.

Estimated time: 30 minutes

### About Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate resources

A Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate deployment manages the resources it requires to function. You can create different deployments types such as, Oracle Database, MySQL, or Big Data. The GoldenGate deployment also lets you access the GoldenGate deployment console, where you can access the OCI GoldenGate deployment console to create and manage processes such as Extracts and Replicats.

Connections capture source and target credential information. A connection also enables networking between the Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GoldenGate service tenancy virtual cloud network (VCN) and your tenancy VCN using a private endpoint.

### Objectives

In this lab, you will:
* Locate Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate in the Console
* Create an OCI GoldenGate deployment for the Autonomous Database
* Create an OCI GoldenGate deployment for Oracle Object Storage
* Create connections for the source Autonomous Databases and target Oracle Object Storage bucket
* Assign connections to deployments


### Prerequisites
In Task 5, you must upload a private key and enter the corresponding public key fingerprint. To add an API key:

1.  Oracle Cloud console global navigation bar, click **Profile** (user icon), and then select **User Settings**.

    ![Oracle Cloud console User menu](images/00-01-profile.png " ")

2.  On the user details page, under **Resources**, click **API Keys**.

3.  Click **Add API Key**.

    ![Resources on User details page](images/00-03-apikey.png " ")

4.  In the Add API Key dialog, click **Download Private Key** to download the key, and then click **Add**.

    ![Download Private key](images/00-04-privatekey.png " ")

5.  In the Configuration File Preview dialog, copy the fingerprint to a text editor, and then click **Close**.

> **Note:** *Compartment names in the screenshots may differ from values that appear in your environment.*

## Task 1: Create a deployment for Autonomous Transaction Processing

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Oracle Database**, and select **GoldenGate**.

    ![GoldenGate in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/database-goldengate.png " ")

2.  On the GoldenGate **Overview** page, click **Deployments**.

    ![GoldenGate Overview page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-02-ggs-overview.png " ")

3.  You may need to select a compartment. Under List Scope, from the Comparment dropdown, expand the root compartment, and then select the compartment associated with your username. For example, if your LiveLab username is LL1234-user, expand root, and then select the compartment **LL1234-COMPARTMENT**.

4.  On the Deployments page, click **Create Deployment**.

    ![Deployments page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-04-create-deployment.png "")

5.  In the Create Deployment panel, enter **ATPDeployment** for Name.

6.  From the Compartment dropdown, select a compartment.

7.  For OCPU Count, enter **1**.

8.  For Subnet, select a subnet. If you're using the workshop environment, select **&lt;user&gt;pubsubnt**.

9.  For License type, select **Bring You Own License (BYOL)**.

10. Click **Show Advanced Options**, and then select **Create Public Endpoint**.

    ![Completed Create GoldenGate Deployment fields](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-10-create-deployment-summary.png " ")

11. Click **Next**.

12. From the Select a technology dropdown, select **Oracle Database**.

13. For GoldenGate Instance Name, enter **ATPinstance**.

14. For Administrator Username, enter **oggadmin**.

15. For Administrator Password, enter a password. Take note of this password.

16. Click **Create**.

    ![Completed GoldenGate details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-16-create-deployment-summary.png " ")

You're brought to the Deployment Details page. It takes a few minutes for the deployment to be created. Its status will change from CREATING to ACTIVE when it is ready for you to use.

## Task 2: Create a deployment for Oracle Object Storage

1.  On the Deployments page, click **Create Deployment**.

2.  In the Create Deployment panel, enter **OBJDeployment** for Name.

3.  From the Compartment dropdown, select a compartment.

4.  For OCPU Count, enter **1**.

5.  For Subnet, select a subnet. If you're using the workshop environment, select **&lt;user&gt;pubsubnt**.

6.  For License type, select **Bring You Own License (BYOL)**.

7.  Click **Show Advanced Options**, and then select **Create Public Endpoint**.

    ![Completed Create GoldenGate Deployment fields](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-07-bigdata.png " ")

8.  Click **Next**.

9.  From the Select a technology dropdown, select **Oracle Database**.

10. For GoldenGate Instance Name, enter **BDinstance**.

11. For Administrator Username, enter **oggadmin**.

12. For Administrator Password, enter a password. Take note of this password.

13. Click **Create**.

    ![Completed GoldenGate details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-13-bigdata.png " ")

You're brought to the Deployment Details page. It takes a few minutes for the deployment to be created. Its status will change from CREATING to ACTIVE when it is ready for you to use.

## Task 3: Create an Autonomous Database connection

Follow the steps below to create a connection for the source Oracle Autonomous Transaction Processing \(ATP\) Database.

1.  Use the Oracle Cloud Console breadcrumb to navigate back to the GoldenGate page.

    ![GoldenGate highlighted in Oracle Cloud Console breadcrumb](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-01-breadcrumb.png " ")

2.  Click **Connections**.

    ![Connections in GoldenGate menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-02-goldengatemenu.png " ")

3.  Click **Create Connection**.

    ![Connections page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-03-connections.png " ")

4.  In the Create Connection panel, for Name, enter **SourceATP**.

5.  From the Type dropdown, select **OCI Autonomous Database**.

6.  Click **Next**.

7.  For **Database in &lt;compartment-name&gt;**, click **Change Compartment**, select the compartment you created your ATP instance, and then select **SourceATP** from the dropdown. Some fields are autopopulated based on your selection.

8.  Enter a password for the `ggadmin` user in the Password field, and then click **Create**.

    ![Source Database details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/03-08-atpconnection.png)

    The connection becomes Active after a few minutes.

## Task 4: Unlock the GGADMIN user and enable supplemental logging for the source database

Oracle Autonomous Databases come with a GGADMIN user that is locked by default. The following steps guide you through how to unlock the GGADMIN user.

1.  From the Oracle Cloud Console **Navigation Menu** (hamburger icon), click **Oracle Database**, and then select **Autonomous Transaction Processing**.

	 ![Autonomous Transaction Processing in the Oracle Cloud Console navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/common/images/console/database-atp.pngatp.png " ")

2.  From the list of databases, select **SourceATP**.

    ![Autonomous Transaction Processing page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-02-sourceatp.png " ")

3.  On the SourceATP Database Details page, click **Database Actions**.

    ![SourceATP Database Details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-03-db-tools.png " ")

    > **Note:** *If you're prompted to log in to Database Actions, use the SourceATP admin credentials located in the Workshop Details.*

4.  Under **Administration**, click **Database Users**.

    ![Database Actions](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/sql-dbusers.png " ")

5.  From the list of users, locate **GGADMIN**, and then click the ellipsis (three dots) icon and select **Edit**.

    ![Database users](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-06-locked.png " ")

6.  In the Edit User panel, deselect **Account is Locked**, enter the password you gave the ggadmin user in the database registration steps above, and then click **Apply Changes**.

    ![Edit user](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/02-07-edit.png " ")

    Note that the user icon changes from a padlock to a checkmark.

7.  Open the navigation menu (hamburger icon), and then under **Development**, select **SQL**.

    ![Open navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/01-08-sql.png " ")

8.  Enter the following into the Worksheet, and then click **Run Statement**.

    ```
    <copy>ALTER PLUGGABLE DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA;</copy>
    ```

    You can leave the SQL window open and continue with the next Task.

## Task 5: Create a connection for Oracle Object Storage

1.  Use the Oracle Cloud Console navigation menu to navigate back to GoldenGate. Open the Oracle Cloud console navigation menu, click **Oracle Database**, and then **GoldenGate**.

    ![GoldenGate in the Oracle Cloud console navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/common/images/console/database-goldengate.png " ")

2.  Click **Connections** and then **Create Connection**.

3.  In the Create Connection panel, enter **TargetObjStore** for Name.

4.  From the Type dropdown, select **OCI Object Storage**.

5.  Click **Next**.

6.  From the Region dropdown, select your region.

7.  For Private key configuration, drag-and-drop the private key (.pem) or select it from your local machine.

    >**Note**: *Refer to the Prerequisites section for instructions on how to obtain a private key.*

8.  Enter the corresponding public key fingerprint you copied from the prerequisite steps. You can also go back to your User settings in the Oracle Cloud console global header to copy it again. 

9.  Click **Create**.

    ![Target details](images/05-07-objstorageconnection.png " ")

    The Connection becomes Active after a few minutes.

## Task 6: Assign connections to deployments

After your deployments and connections become active, you can assign the connections to the appropriate deployments.

1.  In the GoldenGate menu, click **Deployments**.

2.  Select **ATPDeployment** to view its details.

3.  On the ATPDeployment details page, under Resources, click **Assigned connections**.

    ![Deployment details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-03-assignedconnections.png " ")

4.  Under Assigned connections, click **Assign connection**.

    ![Assigned connections](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-04-assignconnection.png " ")

5.  In the Assign connection dialog, from the **Connection** dropdown, select **SourceATP**, and then click **Assign connection**.

    ![Assign connection dialog](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-05-assignconnection.png " ")

6.  Use the breadcrumb to return to the Deployments page.

    ![Deployment details breadcrumb](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/create/images/06-06-breadcrumb.png " ")

7.  Repeat steps 2 to 6 to assign the TargetObjStore connection to the OBJDeployment.

    ![OBJDeployment details](images/06-07-bdconnection.png " ")

**Proceed to the next lab**.

## Learn More

* [Create a deployments](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/llyhq/index.html)
* [Create a connection to Autonomous Database](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/tqrlh/index.html)
* [Create a connection to OCI Object Storage](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/sjsrj/index.html)
* [Assign connections to a deployment](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/goldengate-service/qsqts/index.html)

## Acknowledgements
* **Author** - Jenny Chan, Consulting User Assistance Developer, Database User Assistance
* **Contributors** -  Deniz Sendil, Database Product Management
* **Last Updated By/Date** - Jenny Chan, July 2022
