oci-ggs/adb/adb.md, before:

# Set up the environment

## Introduction

In this lab, you learn to create the required resources you'll use for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GoldenGate. We'll show you how to create a VCN and subnet, provision autonomous database instances, and load data into the databases.

Estimated time: 20 minutes

### Objectives

-  Provision a VCN and subnet
-  Provision, connect, and load data into an Autonomous Transaction Processing (ATP) instance
-  Provision, connect, and load data into an Autonomous Data Warehouse (ADW) instance

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have completed the following labs:
* Get started - Cloud login

> **Notes:** 

> * You may see differences in account details (eg: Compartment Name is different in different places) as you work through the labs. This is because the workshop was developed using different accounts over time.
> * This workshop was designed to use Oracle Autonomous Databases as the source and target. If you plan to use Oracle Database, ensure that you use the CDB user to capture data from the PDBs.

## Task 1: Create a VCN and subnet

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Networking**, and select **Virtual Cloud Networks**.

	![Virtual Cloud Networks in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/networking-vcn.png " ")

2.  On the **Virtual Cloud Networks in &lt;compartment-name&gt;** page, click **Start VCN Wizard**.

	![Virtual Cloud Networks page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-02-start-vcn-wizard.png " ")

3.  In the Start VCN Wizard dialog, select **VCN with Internet Connectivity**, and then click **Start VCN Wizard.**

    ![Start VCN Wizard dialog](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-03-vcn-wizard.png " ")

4.  Enter a name for the VCN, select a compartment, and then click **Next**.

    ![Enter VCN details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-04-vcn-details.png " ")

5.  Verify the configuration, and then click **Create**.

    ![Verify configuration details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-05-create-vcn.png " ")

You can click View VCN Details and see both a Public and Private subnet were created.

## Task 2: Create an ATP instance

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Oracle Database**, and select **Autonomous Transaction Processing**.

	![Autonomous Transaction Processing in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/database-atp.png " ")

2.  On the **Autonomous Database &lt;compartment-name&gt;** page, click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-02-create-adb.png " ")

3. For **Compartment** select a compartment from the dropdown. (Note that yours will be different - do not select **ManagedCompartmentforPaaS**) and then enter **SourceATP** for **Display Name** and **Database Name**.

    ![Create Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-03-compartment.png " ")

4.  Under **Choose a workload type**, select **Transaction Processing**.

5.  Under **Choose a deployment type**, select **Serverless**.

    ![Deployment type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-05-deployment.png " ")

6.  Under **Configure the database**, leave **Choose database version** and **Storage (TB)** and **OCPU Count** as they are.

7.  Add a password. Take note of the password, you will need it later in this lab.

    ![Password field](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-07-pw.png " ")

8.  Under **Choose a license type**, select **License Included**.

    ![License type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-08-license.png " ")

9.  Click **Create Autonomous Database**. Once it finishes provisioning, you can click on the instance name to see details of it.


## Task 3: Load the ATP schema

1.  Download the database schema:

    [Archive.zip](https://objectstorage.us-ashburn-1.oraclecloud.com/p/VEKec7t0mGwBkJX92Jn0nMptuXIlEpJ5XJA-A6C9PymRgY2LhKbjWqHeB5rVBbaV/n/c4u04/b/livelabsfiles/o/data-management-library-files/Archive.zip)

2.  Save `Archive.zip` to a download directory, and then unzip the file.

3.  Back in the Oracle Cloud console, select your ATP instance from the Autonomous Databases page to view its details and access tools.

    ![Select your Autonomous Database instance](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-03-atp.png " ")

4.  On the Autonomous Database details page, click **Database actions**.

    ![ATP details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-04-dbdetails.png)

5.  If prompted, log in with the ADMIN user and password provided when you created the ATP instance.

    ![DB Actions log in page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-05-login.png " ")

6.  From the Database Actions menu, under **Development**, select **SQL**.

    ![Database Actions page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-06-db-actions.png " ")

7.  (Optional) Close the Help dialog.

8.  Copy and paste the SQL script from **OCIGGLL\_OCIGGS\_SETUP\_USERS\_ATP.sql** into the SQL Worksheet.

    ![Pasted script in SQL Worksheet](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-08-atp-sql.png " ")

9.  Click **Run Script**. The Script Output tab displays confirmation messages.

10. Copy and paste the SQL script from **OCIGGLL\_OCIGGS\_SRC\_USER\_SEED\_DATA.sql** a new SQL Worksheet.

    ![Pasted schema script in SQL Worksheet](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-10-atp-schema.png " ")

11. Click **Run Script**. The Script Output tab displays confirmation messages.

	> **Note:** If you find that running the entire script does not create the tables, then try running each table creation and insert statements one at a time until all the tables are created. You may also need to relaunch SQL to continue running the scripts until all tables are created and populated.

12. Close the SQL window and then reopen it from Database Actions again.

13. In the Navigator tab, look for the SRC\_OCIGGLL schema and then select tables from their respective dropdowns to verify the schema and tables were created. You may need to log out and log back in if you can't locate SRC\_OCIGGLL.

    ![Displays the SRC\_OCIGGLL tables](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-11-verify.png " ")

14. To enable supplemental logging, run the following command:

    ```
    <copy>ALTER PLUGGABLE DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA;</copy>
    ```

## Task 4: Create an ADW instance and user

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Oracle Database**, and select **Autonomous Data Warehouse**.

	![Autonomous Data Warehouse in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/common/images/console/database-adw.png " ")

2.  Click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-02-create-adb.png " ")

3. Select **Compartment** by clicking on the drop-down list. (Note that yours will be different - do not select **ManagedCompartmentforPaaS**) and then enter **TargetADW** for **Display Name** and **Database Name**.

    ![Create Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-03-compartment.png " ")

4.  Under **Choose a workload type**, select **Data Warehouse**.

5.  Under **Choose a deployment type**, select **Serverless**.

    ![Deployment type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-05-deployment-dw.png " ")

6.  Under **Configure the database**, leave **Choose database version** and **Storage (TB)** and **OCPU Count** as they are.

7.  Add a password. Note the password down in a notepad, you will need it later in Lab 2.

    ![Password field](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-07-pw.png " ")

8.  Under **Choose a license type**, select **License Included**.

    ![License type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-08-license.png " ")

9.  Click **Create Autonomous Database**. After it finishes provisioning, you can click on the instance name to see details of it.

10. On the Autonomous Database details page, click **Database Actions**.

11. Log in using the ADMIN username and password set in step 7.

12. Copy and paste the script from **OCIGGLL\_OCIGGS\_SETUP\_USERS\_ADW.sql** into the SQL worksheet, and then click **Run Script**.

	![Pasted script in SQL worksheet](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/04-05-adw.png " ")

13. Log out of Database Actions.

You may now **proceed to the next lab.**

## Acknowledgements

- **Author** - Jenny Chan, Consulting User Assistance Developer
- **Last Updated by** - Jenny Chan, June 2023
- **PAR Expiration date** - February 2024

Commit message:

workshop #11148: change title
change title

oci-ggs/adb/adb.md, after:

# Set up the environment

## Introduction

In this lab, you learn to create the required resources you'll use for Oracle Cloud Infrastructure (OCI) GoldenGate. We'll show you how to create a VCN and subnet, provision autonomous database instances, and load data into the databases.

Estimated time: 20 minutes

### Objectives

-  Provision a VCN and subnet
-  Provision, connect, and load data into an Autonomous Transaction Processing (ATP) instance
-  Provision, connect, and load data into an Autonomous Data Warehouse (ADW) instance

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes you have completed the following labs:
* Get started - Cloud login

> **Notes:** 

> * You may see differences in account details (eg: Compartment Name is different in different places) as you work through the labs. This is because the workshop was developed using different accounts over time.
> * This workshop was designed to use Oracle Autonomous Databases as the source and target. If you plan to use Oracle Database, ensure that you use the CDB user to capture data from the PDBs.

## Task 1: Create a VCN and subnet

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Networking**, and select **Virtual Cloud Networks**.

	![Virtual Cloud Networks in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/networking-vcn.png " ")

2.  On the **Virtual Cloud Networks in &lt;compartment-name&gt;** page, click **Start VCN Wizard**.

	![Virtual Cloud Networks page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-02-start-vcn-wizard.png " ")

3.  In the Start VCN Wizard dialog, select **VCN with Internet Connectivity**, and then click **Start VCN Wizard.**

    ![Start VCN Wizard dialog](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-03-vcn-wizard.png " ")

4.  Enter a name for the VCN, select a compartment, and then click **Next**.

    ![Enter VCN details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-04-vcn-details.png " ")

5.  Verify the configuration, and then click **Create**.

    ![Verify configuration details](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-05-create-vcn.png " ")

You can click View VCN Details and see both a Public and Private subnet were created.

## Task 2: Create an ATP instance

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Oracle Database**, and select **Autonomous Transaction Processing**.

	![Autonomous Transaction Processing in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/database-atp.png " ")

2.  On the **Autonomous Database &lt;compartment-name&gt;** page, click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-02-create-adb.png " ")

3. For **Compartment** select a compartment from the dropdown. (Note that yours will be different - do not select **ManagedCompartmentforPaaS**) and then enter **SourceATP** for **Display Name** and **Database Name**.

    ![Create Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-03-compartment.png " ")

4.  Under **Choose a workload type**, select **Transaction Processing**.

5.  Under **Choose a deployment type**, select **Serverless**.

    ![Deployment type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-05-deployment.png " ")

6.  Under **Configure the database**, leave **Choose database version** and **Storage (TB)** and **OCPU Count** as they are.

7.  Add a password. Take note of the password, you will need it later in this lab.

    ![Password field](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-07-pw.png " ")

8. Under **Access type**, select **Secure access from everywhere**.

9.  Select **Require mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication**. ***upload image to gg commons?***

    ![Choose network access options](./images/02-09-choose-network-access.png " ")

10.  Under **Choose a license type**, select **License Included**. or ... Under **Choose license and Oracle Database edition**, keep the **License Included** license type. ***change image on gg commons?***

    ![License type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-08-license.png " ")

11.  Click **Create Autonomous Database**. Once it finishes provisioning, you can click on the instance name to see details of it.


## Task 3: Load the ATP schema

1.  Download the database schema:

    [Archive.zip](https://objectstorage.us-ashburn-1.oraclecloud.com/p/VEKec7t0mGwBkJX92Jn0nMptuXIlEpJ5XJA-A6C9PymRgY2LhKbjWqHeB5rVBbaV/n/c4u04/b/livelabsfiles/o/data-management-library-files/Archive.zip)

2.  Save `Archive.zip` to a download directory, and then unzip the file.

3.  Back in the Oracle Cloud console, select your ATP instance from the Autonomous Databases page to view its details and access tools.

    ![Select your Autonomous Database instance](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-03-atp.png " ")

4.  On the SourceATP Database Details page, click **Database actions**, and then select **SQL** from the dropdown. If the Database actions menu takes too long to load, you can click **View all database actions** directly, and then select **SQL** from the Database actions page. ***ggs-commons already updated just need to push***

    ![ATP details page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-04-dbdetails.png)

5.  If prompted, log in with the ADMIN user and password provided when you created the ATP instance.

    ![DB Actions log in page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-05-login.png " ")

6.  (Optional) Close the Help dialog.

7.  Copy and paste the SQL script from **OCIGGLL\_OCIGGS\_SETUP\_USERS\_ATP.sql** into the SQL Worksheet.

    ![Pasted script in SQL Worksheet](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-08-atp-sql.png " ")

8.  Click **Run Script**. The Script Output tab displays confirmation messages.

9. Copy and paste the SQL script from **OCIGGLL\_OCIGGS\_SRC\_USER\_SEED\_DATA.sql** a new SQL Worksheet.

    ![Pasted schema script in SQL Worksheet](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-10-atp-schema.png " ")

10. Click **Run Script**. The Script Output tab displays confirmation messages.

	> **Note:** If you find that running the entire script does not create the tables, then try running each table creation and insert statements one at a time until all the tables are created. You may also need to relaunch SQL to continue running the scripts until all tables are created and populated.

11. Close the SQL window and then reopen it from Database Actions again.

12. In the Navigator tab, look for the SRC\_OCIGGLL schema and then select tables from their respective dropdowns to verify the schema and tables were created. You may need to log out and log back in if you can't locate SRC\_OCIGGLL.

    ![Displays the SRC\_OCIGGLL tables](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/03-11-verify.png " ")

13. To enable supplemental logging, run the following command:

    ```
    <copy>ALTER PLUGGABLE DATABASE ADD SUPPLEMENTAL LOG DATA;</copy>
    ```

## Task 4: Create an ADW instance and user

1.  Open the **Navigation Menu**, navigate to **Oracle Database**, and select **Autonomous Data Warehouse**.

	![Autonomous Data Warehouse in Oracle Cloud navigation menu](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/common/images/console/database-adw.png " ")

2.  Click **Create Autonomous Database**.

    ![Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/01-02-create-adb.png " ")

3. Select **Compartment** by clicking on the drop-down list. (Note that yours will be different - do not select **ManagedCompartmentforPaaS**) and then enter **TargetADW** for **Display Name** and **Database Name**.

    ![Create Autonomous Database page](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-03-compartment.png " ")

4.  Under **Choose a workload type**, select **Data Warehouse**.

5.  Under **Choose a deployment type**, select **Serverless**.

    ![Deployment type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-05-deployment-dw.png " ")

6.  Under **Configure the database**, leave **Choose database version** and **Storage (TB)** and **OCPU Count** as they are.

7.  Add a password. Note the password down in a notepad, you will need it later in Lab 2.

    ![Password field](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-07-pw.png " ")

8. Under **Access type**, select **Secure access from everywhere**.

9.  Select **Require mutual TLS (mTLS) authentication**. ***upload image to gg commons?***

    ![Choose network access options](./images/02-09-choose-network-access.png " ")

10.  Under **Choose a license type**, select **License Included**. or ... Under **Choose license and Oracle Database edition**, keep the **License Included** license type. ***change image on gg commons?***

    ![License type options](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/02-08-license.png " ")

11.  Click **Create Autonomous Database**. Once it finishes provisioning, you can click on the instance name to see details of it.

10. On the TargetADW Database Details page, click **Database actions**, and then select **SQL** from the dropdown. If the Database actions menu takes too long to load, you can click **View all database actions**, and then select **SQL** from the Database actions page. 

11. If prompted, log in using the ADMIN username and password set in step 7.

12. Copy and paste the script from **OCIGGLL\_OCIGGS\_SETUP\_USERS\_ADW.sql** into the SQL worksheet, and then click **Run Script**.

	![Pasted script in SQL worksheet](https://oracle-livelabs.github.io/goldengate/ggs-common/adb/images/04-05-adw.png " ")

13. Log out of Database Actions.

You may now **proceed to the next lab.**

## Acknowledgements

- **Author** - Jenny Chan, Consulting User Assistance Developer
- **Last Updated by** - Jenny Chan, June 2023
- **PAR Expiration date** - February 2024
