ggma-topologies/cascading-topology-uc-rest-api/cascading-topology-rest-api.md, before:

# Configure a Cascading Replication Topology Using REST API  


## Introduction

Oracle GoldenGate supports cascading synchronization, which means that Oracle GoldenGate propagates data changes from one database to a second transitional database, and then on to a third database.

![This image shows the Cascading topology.](./images/cascading.png)

In a typical cascading configuration: 

* An Extract on the initial database or PDB, writes captured data to a local trail, and a Distribution Path sends the data to a remote trail on the transitional system in the cascade.

* On the second host system, Replicat applies the data to the local database or PDB.

* Another Extract on that same system captures the data from the local database and writes it to a local trail.

* A distribution path (DISTPATH) sends the data to a remote trail on the final system in the cascade, where it is applied to the local database or PDB by another Replicat.

This configuration can be used to perform data filtering and conversion if the character sets on all systems are identical. If character sets differ, then a data pump cannot perform conversion between character sets, and you must configure Replicat to perform the conversion and transformation on the target.

### Cascading Configuration in this Lab

For setting up replication across a Cascading topology, there are some preset configurations. The following diagram depicts the initial, intermediate, and final databases that have been set up for testing the Cascading replication. 

![The initial source database, DBNORTH, replicates to the intermediate database, DBWEST, then the Extract from from DBWEST writes to the local trail and sends the data to DBSOUTH using a distribution path](./images/cascading_livelab_uc.png)

From this diagram, you can deduce the following: 

* In the `depl_north` deployment, the `EXTN` Extract captures from `DBNORTH` (source PDB) and writes it to the local trail.

* In the `depl_south` deployment, the `REPN` Replicat trail is sent to the 
* The Replicat `REPS` process on `depl_west`, replicates to the `DBWEST` database.  

* The Extract process, `EXTW`, in `depl_west` captures the replicated data and writes it to the local trail.

*  This trail is replicated to the target PDB, `DBWEST` using the Replicat process 

*  



Estimated Time: 10 minutes

### Objectives

The objective of this tutorial is to:

* Show the use of data replication in a cascading topology.

* Run the automation scripts to set up the Oracle GoldenGate processes in `depl_north`, `depl_west`, and `depl_south` deployments. 

* Test the output to show replication across the environment connected using a Cascading topology configuration.

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes that you have completed the tasks in **initial-setup**.


## Task 1: Set Up Oracle GoldenGate Processes Across Multiple Deployments on Different Databases

   To set up the Extract, Replicat, Distribution Path, and Receiver Path processes across deployments, follow these steps:

   1. Navigate to the `/scripts/UseCases/03_Cascading/REST-API` directory. You will see the script `add_replication_cascading_curl.sh`.

   2. Run this script using the following command:

   ```
   .\add_replication_cascading_curl.sh`
   
   ```
   This script automatically creates the Extract, Replicat, DISTPATH processes for all three deployments.

   3. Now, let's test whether the processes are up and running in these deployments. 

       a. From your REST API client, connect to the `depl_north` deployment.

       b. Run the command to view the process information. You should be able to see the Extract process, `EXTN`, and Replicat process, `REPS`, in RUNNING state.

       c. Run the command to view information about the DISTPATH process. You should be able to see the DPNS process in RUNNING state.

       d. Apply the steps a to c, for the `depl_south` deployment. You should be able to see the Extract ()

Commit message:

Added steps to use the RMAN script
Added steps to use the RMAN script to get rid of the Archiver error in the application.

ggma-topologies/cascading-topology-uc-rest-api/cascading-topology-rest-api.md, after:

# Configure a Cascading Replication Topology Using REST API  


## Introduction

Oracle GoldenGate supports cascading synchronization, which means that Oracle GoldenGate propagates data changes from one database to a second transitional database, and then on to a third database.

![This image shows the Cascading topology.](./images/cascading.png)

In a typical cascading configuration: 

* An Extract on the initial database or PDB, writes captured data to a local trail, and a Distribution Path sends the data to a remote trail on the transitional system in the cascade.

* On the second host system, Replicat applies the data to the local database or PDB.

* Another Extract on that same system captures the data from the local database and writes it to a local trail.

* A distribution path (DISTPATH) sends the data to a remote trail on the final system in the cascade, where it is applied to the local database or PDB by another Replicat.

This configuration can be used to perform data filtering and conversion if the character sets on all systems are identical. If character sets differ, then a data pump cannot perform conversion between character sets, and you must configure Replicat to perform the conversion and transformation on the target.

### Cascading Configuration in this Lab

For setting up replication across a Cascading topology, there are some preset configurations. The following diagram depicts the initial, intermediate, and final databases that have been set up for testing the Cascading replication. 

![The initial source database, DBNORTH, replicates to the intermediate database, DBWEST, then the Extract from from DBWEST writes to the local trail and sends the data to DBSOUTH using a distribution path](./images/cascading_livelab_uc.png)

From this diagram, you can deduce the following: 

* In the `depl_north` deployment, the `EXTN` Extract captures from `DBNORTH` (source PDB) and writes it to the local trail.

* In the `depl_south` deployment, the `REPN` Replicat trail is sent to the 
* The Replicat `REPS` process on `depl_west`, replicates to the `DBWEST` database.  

* The Extract process, `EXTW`, in `depl_west` captures the replicated data and writes it to the local trail.

*  This trail is replicated to the target PDB, `DBWEST` using the Replicat process 

*  



Estimated Time: 10 minutes

### Objectives

The objective of this tutorial is to:

* Show the use of data replication in a cascading topology.

* Run the automation scripts to set up the Oracle GoldenGate processes in `depl_north`, `depl_west`, and `depl_south` deployments. 

* Test the output to show replication across the environment connected using a Cascading topology configuration.

### Prerequisites

This lab assumes that you have completed the tasks in **initial-setup**.

### Tip

If you see the error ORA-00257 Archiver Error, then run the following script to remove redundant archive log files from the system and run the application seamlessly:

1. Navigate to the `scripts/misc' directory.
2. Run the `rman_delete_archivelog.sh` script. 

After you run this script, you would be able to continue to run the scripts successfully.

## Task 1: Set Up Oracle GoldenGate Processes Across Multiple Deployments on Different Databases

   To set up the Extract, Replicat, Distribution Path, and Receiver Path processes across deployments, follow these steps:

   1. Navigate to the `/scripts/UseCases/03_Cascading/REST-API` directory. You will see the script `add_replication_cascading_curl.sh`.

   2. Run this script using the following command:

   ```
   .\add_replication_cascading_curl.sh`
   
   ```
   This script automatically creates the Extract, Replicat, DISTPATH processes for all three deployments.

   3. Now, let's test whether the processes are up and running in these deployments. 

       a. From your REST API client, connect to the `depl_north` deployment.

       b. Run the command to view the process information. You should be able to see the Extract process, `EXTN`, and Replicat process, `REPS`, in RUNNING state.

       c. Run the command to view information about the DISTPATH process. You should be able to see the DPNS process in RUNNING state.

       d. Apply the steps a to c, for the `depl_south` deployment. You should be able to see the Extract ()
