ggs-bidirectional-replication/README.md, before:

# Replicating Data Using Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate


## How to Prepare for This Workshop 

- Once you are viewing the workshop's gitHub page's website, you can see a list of Lab Guides at any time by clicking on the **Menu Icon**

## Oracle Golgengate Classic Workshop

Welcome to the Replicating Data Using Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate Workshop. The content will give you a basic understanding of OCI GoldenGate.

## Introduction

The Replicating Data Using Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate Workshop is designed to introduce replication capabilities between Autonomous Databases in the cloud. 


## Workshop Details

There are 5 hands-on labs in this workshop. You first need to set up your environment by provisioning a Virtual Cloud Network and Subnet, an Autonomous Transaction Processing database, and an Autonomous Data Warehouse. After reviewing the Prerequisites and Introduction, complete the labs in this order:

Lab  –   Set up the envrionment

Lab   –  Create the OCI GoldenGate Deployment 

Lab   –  Register Databases

Lab   –  Create and Run the Extract and Replicat

Lab   –  Monitor Extracts and Replicats

Commit message:

Updated README.md for bidirectional replication

ggs-bidirectional-replication/README.md, after:

# Configure bidirectional replication using Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate


## How to Prepare for This Workshop 

- Once you are viewing the workshop's gitHub page's website, you can see a list of Lab Guides at any time by clicking on the **Menu Icon**

## Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate Workshop Overview

Welcome to the Configure bidirectional replication using Oracle Cloud Infrastructure GoldenGate Workshop. This workshop instructs you on how to set up two-way replication in OCI GoldenGate.

## Workshop Details

There are 5 hands-on labs in this workshop. You first need to set up your environment by provisioning a Virtual Cloud Network and Subnet, an Autonomous Transaction Processing database, and an Autonomous Data Warehouse. After reviewing the Prerequisites and Introduction, complete the labs in this order:

Lab  –  Set up the envrionment

Lab  –  Create the OCI GoldenGate resources 

Lab  –  Replicate data from source to target

Lab  –  Replicate data from target to source

Lab  –  Monitor Extracts and Replicats

Lab  –  Purge unused Trail files
